The Joe Rogan experience.
What kind of resources are available to you when you do come back? Like how,
how do they treat people that are suffering from PTSD.
And, well, you gotta be careful with it, right? Because I mean, the,
the last track you want to get on is, is all the, the pharmaceutical drugs,
right? Like the pills and so stuff. Um, and you'll get on that real quick.
The VA is notorious for it. So, you know, we, what do they try to give you?
Um, I mean, I, collopin Xanax, I've been on tons of blood pressure medicine.
I mean, you go down the list. Right. And, uh, and I, I,
like, I went down that I went down that road and, and it got me nowhere.
Um, but now, you know, like we're, you know,
there's tons of nonprofits out there who are doing a lot of great stuff, uh,
trying, trying to help out. Um, you know, we're,
withs one thing that we found out and,
and actually studies are starting to show that this helps is, uh,
it's called a Stella Stella gang gangum block. It's called SGB,
it's a Stella gangling block. And, um, you get a shot,
it goes in your neck. Um, and I'll tell you this,
like when I got that shot
it instantly before the needle came outta my neck,
Dr. Sean Mulvaney is the guy that's, that's, that's putting all this together.
When the needle came, came outta my neck, it instantly took me from being like,
like my whole life was downtown, New York city and rush hour traffic,
15 minutes late to a meeting that my life depended on to instantly
being, driving down a quiet country road with nowhere to be really instantly,
instantly, what is it doing? So basically what it does is,
is this is how it was described to me. And you have like two systems,
you have like your, your, your automatic nervous system,
and then you have your manual, right?
So your automatic is like your eyes blinking, breathing, things like that.
Your manual is like, Hey,
I need to reach over here and grab this bottle of water.
And what happens is this fight or flight gets stuck in your automated,
like there's no longer do you say, I recognize this as a threat.
And now I go into fight or flight.
So what it does is you've been in that so long that it gets put over into the,
the automatic side. And so what this does is it's kind of like a restart. Like,
it, it there's no nothing that lasts long in it, it, it goes in and it,
it basically, I think it gets on it, the sciatictic nerve,
and it basically gives you a restart. And it just,
it took away all Myx anxiety. I mean, it, it, it just, it instantly
like just melted it away. How long does it last? So it comes down to,
I mean, sometimes I get one, one a year, one every six months,
but comes down to,
do you go back and expose yourself to these chaotic situations, right? Like,
do you go keep making bad decisions? Um, but for me, I look at it as like a,
it's a, it's a solution to, to, I call it the flash bang of anxiety. So like,
it's that flash bang that gives you the moment,
the separation to where now I can make decisions that I don't feel like I'm
outta control. Mm-hmm <affirmative> now I can, I can make decisions to get,
get things back together.
What is the actual chemical that they're using?
I don't know. I would have to look, he's got it. An article about it.
That's crazy that it's so effective of using stellat
gangian block to treat posttraatic stress disorder. Yeah. Okay.
Make that a little bigger.
Jamie posttraumatic stress disorder develops in response to being exposed to
extreme stress. Do, do, do, do, do, do, do. Okay.
The sympathetic nervous system fighttofide has been known to play a part in
PTSD.
It's believed that extra nerves of the system or grow after extreme trauma.
Wow. Leading to elevated levels,
levels of noapnephrine and adrenaline-like substance,
which in turn overactivates the amygdala, the fear center of the brain,
this chain of events, results in PTSD symptoms that may be,
that may persist for years. Um,
so a part of the sympathetic nervous system called the stellat ganggli on a
collective nerves in the neck,
seems to control the activation of the Amy amygdala.
A recent innovation offers potential and rapidly treating symptoms of PTSD for a
prolonged period of time placing an anesthetic agent on the stellat ganggliion
in an anesthetic procedure called the stellat gangly and block
can relieve the symptoms of PTSD in as little as 30 minutes. And for you,
it said just a few seconds before.
The needle is out.
And last for years,
the S GB reboots the sympathetic nervous system to its pre-trauma state,
similar to a computer reboot in the brain nor epinephrine levels are rapidly
reduced. And the extra nerve growth is removed. Wow.
SGB is an anesthetic procedure that has been performed since 1925 and is
considered a low risk pain procedure done under x-ray guidance. That's insane.
Yeah.
They use a, uh,
so Dr. Sean movaney is the guy I I've been to other doctors and he's Dr.
Movaney's the only guy I would go to.
Who does it the way he's got the whole procedure set up. He was a Navy seal. Um,
he's a doctor and, uh, he does it outta DC and, and, um, but nobody,
you know, most people hadn't heard of this, you know, I've never heard of this.
Yeah. It's yeah. And it's, um,
I went in and he called me the next day and he was like, so how do you feel?
I said, man, I caught myself singing in the shower this morning. <laugh> like,
I caught myself singing in the shower. What were you singing? I don't,
I can't remember. But I was like, man, I caught myself singing in the shower.
Like I actually, like, I walked out there and I, and, and to me, you know,
I got to a point at that point, like, I,
I got to a low point and I just, uh,
there was nothing like, there's nothing in my life I can complain about. Like,
there's nothing I,
I have this country has given me a life that I could have never dreamed to ever
have. Um, I have no problems, zero,
and I just woke up every day and I was just like,
I just don't wanna wake up feeling like this. And so he's like, come do this,
come do this. And I came out there and did it. And it, it changed.
It changed my whole life.
That sounds infinitely better than therapy or talking through it or
any, any other methods I've ever heard.
Of? Yeah. Well, I mean, I think all that, I think you, I think all that matters.
I think the therapy, like, if you wanna go do talk therapy, that's, that's good.
Like you, you, you should do that.
But I always tell people who go do talk therapy,
like go in there with a plan of where you want your life to be like,
it's like going to a nutrition coach or a workout coach and,
and not giving them goals. Right. You know, don't go in the,
or just to go in there, like go in there with a plan, you know, Hey, how,
how and have them help you get to that plan. But this,
this is instantly just like that.
That's incredible. Now, did they,
did they try to do that in conjunction with medication?
Does it does a standalone thing, standalone thing.
Wow. Standalone thing, you know, the only thing I do to,
to help mine and my anxie is like, it, it can get bad.
Like I'm talking bad when.
When, and when you say that, like what happens? Like what's, what's the process?
You know, I, I usually feel it building up, um, over days. Yeah. Days. Like,
it's almost like a, like, it'll come and it just builds up. And then it's like,
it'll, you'll have like a little, little bit of an anxiety attack or whatever.
You'll start feeling anxiety or anxious.
And then that becomes your new baseline. Mm.
And then it keeps building people don't recognize it. And for a long time,
I used to, like, I used to drink a lot and I didn't because I didn't,
I didn't know what anxiety was. I mean, I, well, what do you mean? Like,
this is how I feel all the time. Right. And then, you know,
S then what usually happens is at night, it'll just, when I go to sleep,
it'll just, it'll rock me. It'll rock me. I'll start throwing up.
I'll be sweating. I'll be crying. Like, I mean, I'll be in the floor now.
Are you thinking.
Things when this is happening or is it just an overwhelming sense of anxiety?
Just, just all encompassing. I just, I.
Don't know where it comes from. I mean, obviously I know where it from, but are.
You thinking about war where this is happening? No.
No. I think it just in my subconscious, I think, you know,
obviously your brain is always trying to, to like when you're asleep,
trying to file things and process things. Right.
And I think that's what happens is like consciously, you know, you know,
consciously it doesn't bother me to talk about it. Like I,
I went back and I was in another gun fight four days later.
And I mean,
literally I was packing up all my teammates stuff and getting ready to go back
to fight again. And I got into another gun fight. And
I, I think that, you know, coming home,
your brain's still trying to process all that stuff.
And I think it happens to anybody. You don't have to go to war.
You could be in a car wreck. I mean, you look at,
you look at the October 1st shooting in Vegas, you know, you could,
you can go through anything, right. Like whatever.
I think it's what people are dealing with. And it's just,
I think that's why you see so much anxiety across the world is because of
all this desensitization, consciously,
and people are processing it subconsciously. Mm.
That makes sense. That really makes sense that it's,
they're taking in all this information.
They think it's not affecting them at all, but it really.
Is. It is.
And I think it's why you see all these people feeling like their lives are outta
control. And it's because consciously,
like we're not sitting here talking about it, like, well, yeah, yeah. You know,
I seen a car wreck the other day where, you know, so and so died or,
you know what I mean? And it's like, they're not ever processing it consciously,
but their body will, SUBC like your body will.
I always say you can either exercise your demons or they're gonna exercise you.
That's a great way to put it. What do they recommend when, when,
when you, I mean,
do they check on you to see if you are having anxiety or do you have to come to
them and explain it?
Yeah. I mean, you, you just, you go to them.
Does anybody get through it without anxiety?
I mean, I, I like, I,
I would worry about the people that got through it without it. I mean, yeah,
you, you know what I mean? Right. If you can go kill people and not right,
right. Get through it without nightmares or anything, you know? Um, but I,
I think, I think some people do, uh, I mean, I think,
I think people just deal with it different ways. Right. Um, but me, you know,
like I used to drink a lot and, and, but I,
I was doing it not because I was an alcoholic.
I was doing it as a, I just, I had rather,
I could regulate my drinking better than I could.
The effects of what medicine would do to me.
Now, do the Marines, have a system that they will,
they check on you and make sure you're okay.
Or guide you into a specific type of treatment when they know there's something
wrong.
Yeah. Yeah. But you know, the problem is for all these war fighters is like,
they don't want to go talk about it or tell the Marine Corps because then
they're, you know, you're you're or, or the military,
I'll just say military wide, you know, they, they, they look at you as well.
Now this person can operate everybody.
Everybody's too worried to talk about this because they're afraid of not being
able to do their job,
because they're afraid that somebody will look at them and say, oh, well,
you got PTSD, so you don't need a gun. And it, and it's like, you know,
most people that have PTSD are car wreck victims.
Brilliant. Yeah. That's the biggest source.
Of PTSD. Yeah. You can, you can Google it.
See the biggest source of PTSD is car wreck victims. Wow.
It was probably a lot of those, right. Tons of them.
Yeah.
So when you do have an issue, how,
how do you go from having an issue to getting treatment? What's the process?
Well, you, I mean, if you, if you, if you tell your command, I mean, you know,
the there's, there's all types of resources there. I mean, you know.
Um, but you have to speak out. Yeah. And.
That's the problem, right?
That's the problem is nobody wants to talk out because, you know,
you start talking then, you know, how quick your job gonna be gone?
You know, I got out, I was out before, you know, I was out so fast after,
after all this happened, I was out, you know, seven or eight months afterwards.
And I didn't realize what was going on until
I probably never started dealing with my PTSD until 2016.
You know, I just, I thought this was just normal on.
What made you change?
My, my daughters, my daughter, sailor. Um,
I can remember the day I was in a, I was actually in the floor,
like just having an anxiety attack, like crazy. And I was like,
I gotta do something. I've, I've gotta do something because my daughters,
they deserve the best five father possible. Like they, like,
they had no choice in coming in this world. And, you know, I might not want to,
I might not wanna deal with it and face it for myself, but I, I,
they deserve for me to wake up every single day and give them the best father
that, that they could possibly have. And, and that,
that is my responsibility to them. Is that.
When you first got this shot.
This block, so I ended up getting it in 2017.
Yeah. 2017, I think. Uh, and I didn't know anything about it until,
you know, once I found out about it, I did. How did you find out about it?
Just another, another warrior that had gotten it and it worked for them.
Wow. And, um, I also use, so I use,
I use three methods to maintain all of it. I use the Stella gangen block,
which is, is kind of when it gets real bad, I'll go get that.
That's like the whole reboot. Right. Um, for maintenance,
I usually use it's called a alpha stem. And so it goes on your ear lobes.
I've heard.
Of that. And people quit smoking with that. Right.
I don't know about, I don't know about that. It's for, usually for pain,
anxiety, depression. Um, but I use, I use an alpha stem and it goes,
I put on clipping on my ears and it, like,
I usually do it every day and it just, it melts, it melts it away as well.
And then the last piece is, is, and this is not obviously, and, and I,
our community, it's probably not the popular side of it is, is,
um, is using a, a pan at night, you know, before I go in.
Uh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Do you CBD.
B D uh, so it's the, it's the, uh,
I in Indico mm-hmm <affirmative> yeah. And that, like,
that pretty much eliminated all my drinking. Really? Yeah.
Why is that not popular?
I don't know. I think it's kinda like still like the taboo, right?
Like the town I come from, they just made alcohol legal in it. What?
A few years ago. <laugh>.
What town you from.
Man? Columbia, Kentucky. That's crazy.
They just made alcohol legal. Yeah. Wow. The that's a good place to study.
That's like an unacted tribe. <laugh>.
Yeah. Well, you know, you look, if you, if you do, if you, if you make it legal,
the boot Lakers will go outta business, right.
Oh, okay. It Duke's a hazard style. Yeah. <laugh> that's crazy.
Yeah. Wow. They just made alcohol legal. Holy. So, yeah,
vapepen's outta the question. Oh yeah. Show up with a pot leaf.
T-shirt they'll shoot you. Oh, oh, listen. Yeah. Yeah.
Okay.